

Sample Deep Space Gateway orbit file, produced to help scientists and
engineers evaluate the "Rectilinear Halo Orbit" (NHRO) trajectory design.

Description of the orbit provided by Ryan Whitley of JSC:

A 15 year near-continuous phased reference of an L2 southern family Near
Rectilinear Halo Orbit (NRHO) with a 9:2 lunar synodic resonance, wherein
there are 9 revolutions for every 2 lunar synodic periods. The NRHO is
characterized by a perilune radius of approximately 3,200 km over the northern
hemisphere and apolune radius of approximately 70,000 km over the southern
hemisphere.  The near-rectilinear halo orbit is defined as a specific kind of
3-dimensional periodic halo orbit that emanates from a collinear libration
point, aligns nearly perpendicular to the motion of the primaries, and appears
almost rectilinear in shape. NRHOs generally have higher stability
characteristics than other libration point halo orbits, but due to
gravitational perturbations NRHOs are not stable enough to remain in constant
periodic motion without small corrective maneuvers. The 9:2 lunar synodic
resonant NRHO is phased within the NRHO such that it avoids eclipses by the
Earth for over a decade at a time.  Shorter eclipses by the Moon are still
present within the reference but are always less than 90 minutes.

NOTE: This SPK file contains many very small (micro-second level) data gaps.
NAIF believes this should not impact SPICE-based applications.

The SPICE ID for the DSG platform (the spacecraft) is -60000.
The orbit is given with respect to the earth, for which the SPICE ID is 399.
(One might have thought the orbit data would have been with respect to the
moon, SPICE ID 301.)

Orbit start date (in ET, or TBD):  2020 JAN 02 08:09:36
Orbit stop date (in ET, or TDB):   2035 FEB 11 03:59:59

This SPK file was produced by David Lee, JSC Flight Mechanics and Trajectory Design Branch.

  -  18 July 2018    Charles Acton, NAIF, JPL